Candice Owens is the founder of the Blix
'its foundation an organization
dedicated to driving conservative
principles in to urban communities she's
a published author a speaker and host of
the weekly Candice Owens show on Prager
University
olan's exploded onto the scene in the
summer of 2017 gaining notoriety through
her political vlog series on YouTube
she's since spoken at over 60 American
universities challenging the leftist
status quo insisting that students think
beyond the confines of liberal orthodoxy
with over 250 Fox News appearances any
Fox News viewers any Kusi viewers Owen
sepsis has substantiated herself as a
leader among the growing youth
conservative movement prior to her
entrepreneurial pursuits
Owens worked at a private equity firm in
Manhattan serving as vice president she
attended University of Rhode Island took
executive training courses at NYU Stern
School of Business and Candice views it
as her life's mission to help minority
groups escape the left's victim
narrative so with that Candice are you
here
cat I saw is ladies and gentlemen
[Applause]
[Music]
yeah hi everybody can everybody hear me
hello California it is such a blessing
to be here I wish I had more I actually
move a lot when I speak but I don't want
to knock down these people first and
foremost thank you guys so much for
choosing to spend your evening with me I
really really really am so grateful it
never gets old and I'm so glad to be in
California I had an event about two days
ago in Napa Valley which was packed so
many Patriots in California and people
forget people forget that California is
a state that we need to fight for but I
can say California is the only socialist
country I've ever been to it's amazing
you know I was I was traveling with my
manager on this trip and I really
strongly dislike Los Angeles it really
is just not the place to be and in it if
you really want to see Democrats take it
too far right Los Angeles really is the
experiment for that it's gotten so bad
and what bothers me about the liberal
elites that are in Los Angeles is that
they pretend like they created a heaven
when they lecture the rest of us about
how we need to live you would expect
when you arrived in Los Angeles for
things to be beautiful for things to be
clean right they lecture us oh you can't
have plastic straws but everything
plastic can be found on the streets of
Los Angeles absolutely filthy it's
filthy it really is the airport by the
way is a human rights violation right
completely LAX I cannot do it's like
going to the emergency room on a Friday
night that's the best way to describe it
it's crazy it's absolute madness it's
not like that anyone else in the country
but this is what Los Angeles has become
this is what California is becoming
because for too long progressives which
I always say there's something about
progress
but it always leads to aggressiveness in
our society like if you want to go
backwards hire a progressive right it's
gotten ridiculous and when I got into
this you know I didn't know what to
expect
I was just a girl on YouTube but I can
tell you what I definitely did not
expect I did not expect that by saying
to people I had a very simple message I
wasn't a hardcore Trump girl
I wasn't saying how I'm a Republican
everyone needs to be Republican I just
had this feeling that maybe not every
single person in America is a racist
right that was it it was pretty simple
and it's so funny to go around the
country and to meet so many people and
and they say you're so brave you know
you do such goodness and I really do
feel that I am just a glorified
preschool teacher I say things that
should be common sense right that really
you should have sort of gotten together
or figured out by the time you left the
first grade and people are shops right
it's just not likely that every single
person in America is a racist there
might be something else going on in this
country there might be a different
reason people are turning to President
Donald J Trump
[Applause]
and you would be surprised by the way I
mean if you if you and your heart say
you know things are getting really bad
it's worse on college campuses you
cannot have much I wasn't in college
that long ago and it is so bad it was
not like that
when I was in college and in 2010 right
it has gotten to the point where but I
stand on stage the first thing that I do
on a college campus is I do a test just
to figure out what planet I'm on
just let me know am I am I still on
earth so I say before we get started I'm
gonna ask one question just to see where
I'm at how many people in this room
think that America is a more racist
country today than it was 60 years ago
at least 60 percent of the hands will go
up on a college campus today it's that
ridiculous and the questions they ask I
invite them to come to the front of a
line if they disagree they all disagree
the questions that they ask its
pointedly ridiculous I'm bickering with
children about how many genders there
are there's only two this shouldn't be a
thing this is crazy there's two that is
why I feel like a glorified first-grade
teacher only two genders men can't be
women women can't be men not everybody's
a racist everything can't be free right
that's really a concept if you turn to a
first-grader and you say you know how
should the economy work they'd say well
everything should be free right
and then you'd sit them down you explain
to the first grader why everything
cannot be free that is my job day in and
day out and what have I earned for doing
that for going around and trying to
raise everybody else's children what do
I get for it I get called remarkably a
white supremacist
so then I have to explain to these
children why black people can't be white
supremacists and their minds are blown
they're completely blown I just
explained to them why would I want to
help build a society that I can't live
in right
that's ridiculous and overnight you come
out as a black person you say that
you're a conservative and that's what
happens you get attacked they tell you
that you're not allowed to think
differently because they have this idea
they're so not racists liberals white
liberals that they know exactly how
every single black person needs to think
and they freak out if you don't think
the way that they think you are allowed
to think I disagree with that
you know what I've realized in going
around and speaking to people is just
that what liberals have done you know
since since the dawn of this country is
they've really just repurposed what
they've done all along to black America
and and that's what I've written in my
book which is coming out in April which
is called black out and the subtitle is
how black America can make their second
escape from a Democrat plantation and
when I
and I got I got attacked for saying that
freeze by The Washington Post which
nobody reads nobody reads it they wrote
this piece saying that it was so
ridiculous I had popularized the freeze
you know the Democrat plantation calling
it a plantation how wrong it was that I
did that and they expected me to say oh
you're right I shouldn't use that
language no I use that language that's
exactly what I meant let me explain that
to you what I mean when I do my research
and I understand and I look back at the
time of slavery to me
the Democrats have just modernized the
exact same things that they were doing
on the plantation they just can't get
away with it in the same way you know
when I when I was reading a Frederick
Douglass's book and talking about what
slavery was like for black Americans
what was crucial to it first and
foremost the breakdown of family to
sustain vamped to sustain slavery there
had to be a necessary breakdown of the
family there was a hopelessness that
went with being a slave they wanted you
they were constantly trading you you
weren't allowed to have a family unit
they didn't believe in the family
whatsoever because they wanted people to
work like machines
it was so integral it was something also
that the Democrats made necessary was
illiteracy you were not allowed to read
learn how to read if you were a slave in
America it was actually so illegal but
if you were a white person that was
caught teaching a slave how to read you
were in trouble too it was a severe law
and why is that because an educated mind
can't be enslaved so you might say
so you might say oh but Candace it's
that's different now because now black
people are allowed to learn how to read
right you've got all these candidates
talking about how they're gonna say
black America and none of them are
talking about the staggering illiteracy
rates that are happening right now in
inner cities in California seventy
percent of black boys cannot pass a
basic literacy exam okay you're talking
to me about white supremacy my fear is
liberal supremacy because anywhere show
me any place where liberal policies
reign supreme and I will show you a
place where the inner cities in the
communities are broken or the families
are broken and where people are feeling
hopeless so I like to do when I when
ever I get in front of an audience is
tell you guys some real things about me
because you certainly won't find them on
the internet you will find absurd things
about me as they try to destroy my
character and and not they don't want
people to get into the room with me
because usually what I'm saying just
makes sense right so let's smear her
let's liable her let's make her seem
that she's a a self-hating black you
know the truth is I'm a girl that came
from absolutely nothing I know I did not
have family a family that you know how
to bankroll for me that I could go out
and I could spend their money I grew up
in a small roach infested apartment with
me and my two sisters that's the truth
of my situation and where I came from
you'll never find out on the internet
because it's not interesting they try to
whitewash me they say oh she's from
Connecticut so she must be wealthy they
don't know that there's poor places
everywhere in the entire nation
right I tell people and just some fun
facts about me I was born in 1989 I was
third in line in my family and the third
born and I was born with a blocked tear
duct so that's a true fact about me and
I could not cry for the first few weeks
of my life I could have produced tears
and I always tell people now that that
was the earliest indication that I was
not going to be a liberal
it's true and a lot of people ask me you
know where I get this this strength and
this character to come from why I fight
so hard and why I'm I don't I don't
really care you know what people say
about me where did I learn learn that
and the truth is I came out like that I
was always like that when you watch
videos of me when I was a kid I just was
one of those kids that knew what was
what and I was not intimidated by adults
I wanted answers all the time I hated
the manipulation that I felt would come
from adults when they speak to children
and try to make oversimplify things I
was the kind of kid that when my parents
said Santa's not gonna come if you don't
clean your room I would say well then
tell him not to come I need a better
reason to clean my room than Santa's not
going to come so I was I was a
precocious child my parents always tell
me I was extremely precocious and they
spent a lot of time frustrated and a lot
of time laughing and they received a
blessing when I turned five because it
was time to send me into the public
school system so I was no longer their
problem for seven hours a day but I did
become the problem for my teachers
because I kept up more or less the exact
same attitude and I wanted to know
really with teachers I felt so early on
that they weren't challenging me to
think they didn't want me to think they
wanted me to remember and there was a
test that I took that was on on World
War two and my teacher one of the
questions was why did America have to
drop the bomb on Hiroshima and everyone
in my class just got around to answering
the question and my hand went up and my
teacher just went Oh Candace what could
possibly be the problem I always had my
hand up I always had an issue with the
way they were teaching you know and I
said well I don't like the way this this
question is phrased why did America have
to drop the bomb on Hiroshima why don't
you ask me did America have a drop the
bomb on Hiroshima right slight
difference very important you see one
they're asking people to think
critically to come up with the answers
the other they're telling them the
answer and forcing them to remember the
reasons why this is how the public
school system in-house the school system
is designed today they want children to
remember they want to indoctrinate them
they do not want them to learn how to
think and I will tell you this my
teachers did receive a blessing in high
school because eventually it was time
for me to go to college and they didn't
have to worry about the stress of me
wanting to constantly looking for a
challenge and constantly wanting to
think and let me be clear during this
time I was a liberal if you had asked me
I wasn't really politically inclined I
would I guess technically I was a
political but if you had come up to me
and you had asked me some questions
about politics I would have told you
Republicans are racist Democrats are the
only way that black Americans should
vote Republicans want to send this this
country back to a time where people that
have dark skin can't survive these are
the things that I didn't just choose to
believe but that I was conditioned to
believe by the school system one of the
biggest battles that we are facing today
make no mistake is to win the schools
back
[Applause]
and if you think it's bad you know K K
through 12 it gets so much worse when
you get into college really I mean I
cannot describe to you how bad the
universities have gotten think about
this you know just a short while ago the
the the biggest class across college
campuses was Western civilization right
like loving understanding why Western
civilization is the best why the West is
the best learning the history of Western
civilization and then Jesse Jackson led
a group of protesters in Stanford and
they said hey-ho hey-ho Western Civ has
got to go and they referred to this
course as racist right it's wrong to be
celebrating Western civilization this
was sort of the beginning of teaching
people indoctrinating children and
students to believe that there's
something inherently wrong with being
American how weird how weird that I can
go onto a college campus today and
students can break out and start
chanting USA USA and other students will
say that that chant is racist that it's
xenophobic that there's something wrong
with loving your country when I was in
university we had to pick a course that
we would select as an elective which is
ridiculous that you had to you were
forced to pick either African American
Studies which is basically a course in
how to hate white people gender studies
a course and how does you know hate
straight people or you could pick
feminism which was a course in how to
hate men right it was like pick your
evil was one of the things that I had to
pick so I went with feminism 101 because
at that time if you had asked me I would
have said I was a feminist they say sell
it it sounds so good with a the way they
package things on the left right who
doesn't want to be a feminist who
doesn't support women so I said I'll
take this class this is good send me to
this class
and what a nightmare that ended up being
for my professor for me but for her
because my professor I realized very
quickly that the purpose of this course
was not to empower women the purpose of
this course was to indoctrinate women to
hate men we had to get a textbook and
apparently this textbook had every
problem that women have faced since the
dawn of time and the professor would
stand in the front and she would pick
out a problem and she would read the
problem to the class and then ask us why
and the answer was always because of men
didn't matter what it was it was why are
women thirsty because of men you know it
does it does not matter and the course
would go on and on she'd come in every
day just explaining to us that men are
the really the reason that everything is
bad and there was this one course that
this one particular class that I will
never forget because in the retrospect
it's so meaningful at the time it was
less meaningful she plucked out a
problem in this class and the problem
was about eating disorders and don't
quote me on the exact number but it was
north of 80% of all eating disorders in
America are had by women you know women
have eating disorders and then she
turned to the class and she said why and
the answer of course was because of men
very simple and I just thought to myself
maybe there's something else going on
here you know maybe not everything can
be because of men and she sort of
launched into into this diatribe about
how the reason women feel like they have
to be skinny is because of advertising
agencies which are owned by men make us
feel like we have to look this way and I
audibly chuckled in the middle of his
class I laughed I thought this was funny
and she heard me and she turned around
and we had traded barbs for so I mean so
many classes and she just said what do
you find funny about this and I said I
just find it ridiculous that you look at
this statistic without exploring any
other statistic and I asked her this
question I said like what is the
statistic for how many people shoot
steroids they can go to the gym and make
themselves look big right is that maybe
80% men that take those medicines that
that I'd take those steroids and is that
because of women and she went oh it was
like no that was just not what she
wanted to hear and what she said to me
next I will never forget she went beet
red and she was so angry and she said
Candace I just feel like you were sent
to me from the men's department
bizarre thing to say right
and I said professor I just feel like I
was sent to you from the common-sense
department there might be something else
going on we went back we went forth and
back and went forth until finally I
caught the conversation I said to her I
said you want to know why I find this to
be so ridiculous it was because as I was
sitting in her classroom as a 19 year
old girl I had an eating disorder many
of you guys who follow my story know I
talk about this a lot especially to
young women because I had an eating
disorder for four years of my life and
it was the worst when I was in
university and I laughed because I was
sitting here listened to listening to a
woman that was teaching me that it was
because of men and because I felt the
need to look skinny in front of men when
it wasn't it had nothing to do with men
when I suffered with anorexia it had to
do with control I felt like my life had
spiraled out of control and this thing
this counting of calories is something
that I could do that I could control
something that was the reason why he had
nothing to even do with wanting to look
skinny
I've been skinny in my whole life but
there was this mechanism and yet here
she was teaching me not asking anybody
she never asked once two women to talk
about their experiences she was teaching
us that it was because of men and it was
fascinating and why I say that that this
was such a moment for me in the
retrospect wasn't I think back to that
moment what was happening between me and
that teacher me and that professor is
the difference between liberalism and
conservatism you see liberals
they have a problem they look out
externally they say who can I blame if
I'm short it's because of tall people if
I'm poor it's because of rich people
right this is the way they think but
conservatives we do something weird
totally weird and foreign right we look
inward we look internally we say I have
a problem and now I need to fix it
[Music]
beyond that you know I had to drop out
of school because I am i Sallie Mae
declined my loan in the fourth year is
when they had the big collapse so
imagine being me a hundred over a
hundred thousand dollars in student
loans and I can't finish if I gotta
start paying them back in six months
right so I had to drop out of school hit
the ground running figuring out how I
was gonna pay them back which I did
Bernie Sanders without stealing from
anybody else I wish I really wish they
would do that student loan forgiveness I
would be so angry so angry you know you
make a decision you pay for it not
everybody else and as I was working to
pay back these loans I started working
in private equity for a few years and
you know I never really cared about
politics it just never I never thought
about my life in the context of politics
until an event happened in the world and
a man by the name of Donald J Trump came
down the escalator and whether whether
you are politically inclined or you
weren't paying attention to politics you
paid attention to politics on that day
was impossible to ignore that man for
better or for worse for me it was for
worse as I said oh come on this guy
can't be the President of the United
States it's ridiculous he's the guy that
says you're fired all right I remember
thinking he would make a mockery of the
White House you know that it just it
this this man should not become the
president States and I didn't feel good
about it but I always say and it's fine
me and him were friends now we talked
about that but I always say though what
was remarkable is that while I didn't
think that he was equipped I didn't
think he had the experience what was
more important were the things that I
never thought during that time not once
did I say to myself he shouldn't be the
president because he's a racist and yet
overnight this man who nobody had an
issue with he was he was on the main
stage for decades a celebrity for
decades overnight
I watched the left call this man a
racist
a sexist a misogynist at one point they
even called him incestuous and said that
he had feelings for Ivanka remember that
that's six story that went out overnight
and that's how I got started because the
left overplayed their hand that was it
because I said to myself something's not
right so fast so Swift and they're
calling him all of these names and I
asked myself a most important question I
said is it plausible that racism is now
being used as a theme to turn black
people into single issue voters is it
plausible that sexism is now being used
as a theme to turn women into single
issue voters and of course the answer
was yes so I had the idea I said now
that I know this information I began
reading and just reading and reading and
listening to voices that I had never
listened to before dr. Thomas Sol dr.
ben Carson dr. Condoleezza Rice heroes
in the black community and so
disrespected so disrespected I started
reading their books and and nice I
suddenly felt like I was awake like like
I had been sleeping my entire life like
I had been lied to my entire life like I
had been convinced to see myself as a
victim I had been manipulated and I knew
I knew instantly that I had to get into
this I had no plan but I knew and I and
I knew the odds were gonna be against me
I knew it was gonna be an uphill climb
but I knew that something had to be done
and that now that I had this truth it
wasn't enough to know it I had to share
it and you know I my big idea was to
launch a YouTube channel and fortunately
for me you know my third video and
thanks to people like you in this room
went trending worldwide with 26 million
views
that video was a video of me ranting
because you'll remember after Donald J
Trump became the president itd states
very shortly thereafter the
Charlottesville debacle happened and
that was unbelievable unbelievable
because I came home and my cousin was
watching CNN and I heard I was just
picking it up in the background and CNN
if you were if if you were watching it
they were trying to convince me as a
black American that the KKK was now
alive and well because Donald J Trump
got elected right like we told you this
would happen and now it's here at their
back right people are riding in horses
and this is it I got so angry and I
started ranting for four minutes on my
computer in it and I'll tell you where
this anger came from the worst thing
that that the left does that they
cheapen evil they cheapen real evil
right and I was angry because when when
they started talking and trying to say
that the Ku Klux Klan was alive and well
they were cheapening the real
experiences that my ancestors lived
through they were cheapening it and when
I say my ancestors I don't mean long
dead ancestors I mean my grandfather
who's still breathing who grew up with
the real Ku Klux Klan in a segregated
south they cheapen that experience and
these stories were so real to me growing
up to have my grandfather around the
dinner table explained to us that he
grew up with the real Ku Klux Klan that
when he was a kid they would come by his
home and they would spray bullets and
what's remarkable about that is that my
grandfather when he tells that story he
doesn't tell it like a victim he tells
it with the sense of power he says and
my daddy would grab the shotgun and
shoot back at them boys
[Music]
that strength that power never a victim
segregated south I've never heard my
grandfather ever growing up in his home
ever utter a bad word about a white
person ever he would just say it was a
different time and he worked he worked
his entire life his first job in a
senator gated South when he was five
years old
laying out tobacco to dry picking cotton
on a sharecropping farm this was what my
grandfather had to do right this was his
day in and day out and now I look around
and I see all these little victims who
wouldn't know a hard day of work if it
jumped up and punched them in the face
[Music]
most of you you know know my grandfather
I know in California you probably saw
him sitting behind me when a certain
loser named Ted Alou right decided to
play a tape when I was sitting in a
house should is Sheree committee my
grandfather is easily the closest person
to me I love him so much and I feel that
everything that he lived through was to
give me this experience to go through
life not as a victim but as a part of
this society and and to know that you
know after raising his kids in the north
my grandfather returned back to the
south with my grandmother to retire and
he purchased the sharecropping farm but
he grew up on
he was able to live that life because he
made good decisions that was it
not because he cried not because he
protested when something bad happened
not because he was shrieking in the
streets not because he was demanding
handouts he was able to do that because
of the American Dream and because that
is what is on the line that's what I
fight to protect right that's why I
launched blex it the Black Sea
Organization the black exit from this
liberal ideology which has become a
cancer it is a cancer liberalism is a
cancer because it destroys lives when
you accept yourself and see yourself as
a victim like my granddaddy always says
if you believe you can't you won't it's
that easy
a society now that wants to turn
everybody into victims is a society that
is telling and convincing people they
can't before they even try it's society
but as making people see themselves as a
little man and not letting them know
that in America it's always been this if
you work hard if you stay out of trouble
if you stop making excuses this country
will reward you
[Music]
[Applause]
mic my call to action for every single
person in this room is to first and
foremost just know what's on the line
because we've never dealt with this in
this country right this is different I
say this is World War 3 it might not
look we're fighting a war right it might
not feel that way but we are the war is
ideological we are right now deciding on
what is going to happen in this country
are we going to move towards a socialist
country where everybody is a victim and
nobody wins and everybody's miserable or
are we going to move into the direction
of what this country has always been a
country built on principle on free
markets on capitalism right
[Applause]
you know for me I I spayed I spend day
in and day out fighting for black
America because I know I know that if
black America wakes up and understands
what the left has done not just what
they've done but what they continue to
take from us what they have taken from
black Americans since we've gotten to
this country in 1619 Democrats Democrats
only Democrats ever since the beginning
of the time that black Americas have
been in this country it has been
Democrats I believe if black America
wakes up this country will be saved
I believe it's that simple right because
they've used us as their victims for so
long they've used us as their shields as
they gained power they gained power and
we get nothing nothing 60 years of bad
policies 60 years of our families being
destroyed of our men going to prison the
question that Donald Trump asks in
Michigan in 2015 was a good one what do
you have to lose the answer is nothing I
will pop up just by saying from the
bottom of my heart I am here you know as
a girl that came from nothing and on
this stage because of each of each and
every one of you that is in this room
I'm here because I've got the character
of my grandfather and the support of
patriots all around this country so god
bless you pray for a blek sit and
remember that there is so much that we
can do to make sure that we have a
country at the end of 2020 thank you
[Applause]